GREEN BoF Preparation Meeting 20th May 2024 17.00 CET


Meeting Agenda
1. Overall Status Update
2. BOF Proposal status update
   o Agenda items request
   o The role of proponent
3. Green Charter status update
   o YANG model work will be based on extensions to the inventory where possible in collaboration with in collaboration with IVY.
      * is Capability of devices long term goal or short term goal?
   o Necessity of Framework in the Charter
   o EMAN Reference: RFC6988
      1. What are the use cases,  Have these use cases changed since EMAN?
      2. Does EMAN give us the necessary attributes for reporting dynamic and potential energy use from devices and components?
      3. How much effort is needed to convert EMAN work into YANG?
   o Review Out of scope statements. Issues #6 (interdomain, e-impact analysis) , #26(routing protocol) & #27 (regulation)
   o Coreconf and YANG-CBor from Alexander
   o Modularity or circularity use case from Emile
   o Are Charter ready to be move to Datatracker?
4. Wrapup


Meeting recording started 17.01
Qin Wu chairing

No agenda bashing

1.

BoF request has been submitted to meet deadline and get timeslot
We can continue to update our BoF proposal
7 issues have been raised. All resolved.

60 issues opened against charter
46 have been closed
14 remain
Main discussion points concern scope

2.

Draft BoF agenda
Everyone seemed to be happy with the proposed agenda

Clarify the role of the BoF proponents:
- We already have 4 proponents: it's enough
- Be able to answer AD questions and get through IESG review

Mahesh: Timing presentations vs discussions
Adrian: 60 minutes presentations, 60 minutes discussion
Suresh: Sounds about right

3.

Framework
Tony: What needs to be standardised in a Framework?
Qin: We need to describe incremental migration
Jan: Tradeshows have shown 100s of demos on how to collect data and display it. But no one knows what the graphs represent.
     Need to have common understanding of what the informaiton is.
     The way we collect data is a second thing to standardise.
Qin: So framework would contain whole picture and provide guidance on how to make things work together.

EMAN
Qin: May be able to reuse EMAN requirements, but may need new requirements. Should this be a bis?
     Benoit has done some work to help us compare with EMAN.
     EMAN is about 10 years old, but with little deployment.
     EMAN is also about control of power state, but does not consider (e.g.) traffic-related attributes.
Suresh: We can continue to work on this tpoic
Adrian: Agree: we don't have to get this right now. But the IESG will ask this question.
        So our homework is to reread the paragraph in the charter wrt EMAN and wee how we can make it clearer.
Mahesh: Agree with Adrian. A question I would ask is "How is this different from EMAN?"
        So you need to answer what is different, how are you building on EMAN.

Scope:
Qin: Issue 26 Routing Protocol should be out of scope
Adrian: Agree. But the challenge for us is that we want to collect the right information that could be used by a routing protocol
        or by any other applicaiton, but we don't define how the information is used.
Qin: Issue 27. Discussion with regulators. Not something we are set up to do.
Suresh: Not very helpful to list all of the working groups and their overlap.
Luis: Things that are out of scope today, may become in scope in the future.

Return to discussion of IVY
Qin: Maybe IVY more focussed on static capabilities. GREEN, handles dynamic metrics.
Tony: We should be based on the existing hardware YANG model, not IVY
Diego: Also think about NMOP.
Qin: Maybe we add NMOP to the charter
Oscar: There may be many uses of the metrics we define. Including "green traffic engineering".
       Maybe a future work effort would pick up our metrics and do green traffic engineering.
       So could explicitly mark green traffic engineering as out of scope.
       "Potential collaboration or follow-up could be in TEAS"
Mahesh: What you want to discuss what is in scope and what is out of scope. Don't discuss where the work could be done.
Suresh: Keep track of a major issue: Should this build on inventory or device model?

Modulatiry and Circularity
Emile: The question between short term and long term capabilities needs addressing
       The short term capabilities need to be urgently specified
       With regard to modularity, I have written a draft to say that existing devices can be updated with components that
         have eco design, and don't need any other upgrade. To do this we need to list the eco components we install in
         legacy devices. We need to be able to show that we did the update.
Qin: Maybe your assessment of short/long term capablities is more related to IVY

Charter move to Datatracker
Qin: Mahesh, what's your opinion?
Suresh: Keep the charter out of the Datatracker for now
Adrian: Agree. This belongs to the AD
Mahesh: Yes. Just keep it referenced from the BoF proposal

4. Wrap up
Mahesh: Next Monday is Memorial Day, so US will be off.
Suresh: I don't think we need another meeting as we have the BoF proposal is mainly done.
All: Maybe meet on Wednesday next week if Qin and Marisol think it is necessary.
